In this short video we'll see how the concert qualifier affects pointers.
We've already seen that the use of concert with function reference parameters essentially makes them
read only in C++ we can qualify a pointer in several ways.
First we don't have to use Konst at all.
In this case we have a pointer just as we've been using up to this point.
We can change the data the pointers pointed to and we can change the pointer itself and make it point
somewhere else.
The Konst qualifier gives us more fine grained control of what we allow to be changed.
We can have pointers to constants constant pointers and constant pointers to constants.
These will be very useful when we pass pointers to functions in the next video.
Let's take a look at each one of the in the case of pointers to constants the data pointed to by the
pointer is constant and can't be changed.
However the pointer itself can change and point elsewhere.
Let's take a look at this example.
We have two integers declared in initialize.
These are high score and low score.
But this time when we declare the pointer we use the Konst qualifier before the type that we point to.
So score pointer is a pointer to an integer constant and we initialize it to point to a high score.
If we attempt to change the value of the pointed to data in this case high score will get a compiler
error.
However we're free to assign another address to the pointer and have it points somewhere else as we
do in the last assignment statement in the case of constant pointers.
It's the pointer itself that's constant.
So the data pointed to by the pointer can be changed via the pointer.
However the pointer itself cannot be changed and can't point to anything else.
Notice that we still use the Konst qualifier.
However we use it before the asterisk in the pointer declaration.
So we're declaring score pointer as a Konst pointer to integer.
All right let's look at the last case.
In this case it's a constant pointer to constants.
We need to use the cons qualifier twice in the pointer declaration so the data pointed to by the pointer
is constant and can't change and the pointer itself is also constant and can't change.
Notice the syntax score pointer is a constant pointer to an integer constant.
In this case if we try to modify either the data or the pointer we get compiler errors.
The cons qualifier is very useful and it's often used when passing pointers to functions.
We'll see that in the next video.